Welcome.
I am Perry 'the Cynic'. I am the senior
architect in the data security group.
I designed code signing and implemented
it with a lot of help from my friends.
So I'm yet again here to tell
you about code signing in
Mac OS X and why it's good for you.
That's me.
So I'll tell you about what it is.
I'll tell you enough about how
it works so you get an idea.
I'll tell you how to work
with code signatures,
how to make them, how to verify them.
I'll tell you about the API,
which has just become public,
so you too can now call code
signing functions in Snow Leopard.
I'll tell you what you need to
do to get your program signed and
I'll tell you what to look out
for so you don't get into trouble.
Code signing helps seal a
program against modifications.
So it's first a way to figure
out whether something's changed.
It's a way of defining what it
means for code to have identity.
Like what it means to be Apple's
Mail.app versus an imposter Mail.app or,
heaven forfend, your Mail.app.
It can verify things on the
hard drive--it's called static
validation--and it can verify things
that are running in the system.
We call that dynamic validation,
and it's really what
code signing is about.
And finally, to get all of that working,
almost as a side effect,
we'll provide a way of formally
expressing constraints on
code--conditions you can impose on
code that it needs to satisfy in
order to be allowed to do things.
And what does it not do?
That's almost as important.
Just like a lot of the other
security services like authorization,
signing a program does not get you
automatically any kind of process
privileges that you don't already have.
What it does is help other
programs in the system establish
whether you're really you and
whether you're an acceptable
candidate for getting services.
Code signing does not protect
by itself against bugs.
Because it's about identity.
It's not about behavior.
If you write a program,
and you put a bug in
that erases a hard drive,
and you sign it,
and you send it to the user,
and the user runs it,
it will erase the hard drive.
And that's not a problem
with code signing,
because nothing in there promised that
it wouldn't erase your hard drive.
And from the end user's point of view,
code signing does not protect the
user against trusting the wrong guy.
If the user says,
hard drive eraser dot app sounds great,
and I'll run it,
then it will go and erase the hard drive.
Because that's what
the user said he wants.
And despite what you
may have heard recently,
this is really about what the user wants.
Code signing is meant to be an
integral foundational part of Mac OS.
And so it's in Mac OS X Leopard and
Snow Leopard and it's on the phone.
It's really pretty much the
same code signing technology.
Some of the details are different,
some of the emphasis is different,
but it's the same technology.
It works pretty much the
same on the two platforms.
It obviously applies to programs,
Mac OS processes,
but it can also apply to libraries and
frameworks and scripts and plugins.
It's designed to be able
to apply to anything that's
runnable code on the system.
And, well, it does.
Static and dynamic validation.
The goal going down the road is a
system where everything is signed.
That's already true on the phone
because the phone enforces it.
Code just won't run on the
phone unless it's signed.
It's not true in Mac OS X as of Leopard,
or for that matter, Snow Leopard,
but it's a goal we're working towards.
That's where we need your help because,
you know,
your code wants to run on the system too.
So in the end, down the road,
it will need to be signed.
So what are we using it for?
I mean, obviously now that we have APIs,
you can use it for anything you like.
But if you just install
Leopard or Snow Leopard,
what does it use it for?
Anytime you use Keychain services,
the code signing logic is
used to identify programs that
ask for Keychain services.
So when an access control list says,
"Only Apple's mail program is
allowed to get your mail password,"
Apple's mail program is really a code
signing constraint that gets evaluated by
the security server at runtime to decide
whether the program making the request
is allowed to get access to that item.
For that matter, any time there's a
dialogue that comes up,
one of those security dialogues
that says the program so-and-so
wants to do something--your program,
some other program,
like for example in an authorization
dialogue--the name of the
program that's showing up here
is determined by code signing.
So this is all about program identity,
about code identity,
and obviously anywhere in the system
where we care about code identity,
code signing is used.
The extreme case, of course,
is parental controls,
which cares about which code
is allowed to run at all if
you're a restricted user.
And as of Leopard,
parental controls and MCX are using
code signing to decide whether
something is allowed to run at all.
So here's an extreme case of if code
signing doesn't work for a program,
then a restricted user just
won't be able to run it at all.
The application firewall is using
code signatures to keep track
of the identity of programs.
Once you've answered a dialogue and
said it's okay for that program to
allow inbound network connections,
the firewall remembers the identity
of that program so the next
time you don't get asked again.
There's actually a lot of
situations where it works like this:
you point at a program and you say,
"This program from now on." And code
signatures are used to make sure that
the next time the program comes and asks,
it's still the same program.
And then there's a couple of
little things like what we
call developer tools access.
For example,
the task for PID system call,
which is extremely powerful
but kind of useful if you write
debuggers or performance tools.
Going down the road,
you need to be code signed and marked
up to be allowed to use that at all.
Well, let's try the thousand
words for a picture here.
You have an executable and
if it's not a plain tool,
it actually has resources and an
Info.plist and maybe a couple of
helper tools because you're supposed to
factor out your privileged operations.
So what do we do to sign this?
Well, we take these files,
we add a unique identifier--you pick
that one if you're doing the signing--
And we put a seal on these files
to keep them from being changed.
But because a seal can
be rebuilt at any time,
we then use a digital identity
to sign this sealed blob of data.
The idea of a digital
identity is that only you,
the developer,
have the private key that can make these.
You don't give it to anybody.
It's a secret that only you have.
And therefore,
as long as you don't mess up and,
you know, post it on the internet,
nobody else can actually make a
signature that looks like you made it.
This part is what we
call a code signature.
So it's the identifier, it's the seal,
and it's the signature
that's placed on the seal.
And usually the signature
gets embedded in the program.
If it's a MachO binary,
it just goes into the MachO file itself,
which of course gets
modified during that process.
Now, you may wonder what happened to
that poor little helper tool off
there to the side that clearly
isn't part of the code signature.
No, it isn't,
because we want you to put a separate
signature on your helper tool.
That's an important point and I'll
come to that for a couple more times.
Helpers are not part of the
code signature of the thing
that they're helpers for.
They are separate pieces of code.
They need their own signatures and
it's important not to mix them up
with the signature of the program and
whose bundle they happen to be in.
Okay, so now you've signed a program,
now what do you do with it?
Well, so you start with your code,
as we just discussed, you sign,
starting with Snow Leopard,
actually starting with the new
developer tools that just came out.
Xcode has learned how to sign,
so you don't have to run the
command line tool anymore,
it still works of course,
but now you can actually
get Xcode to sign your code.
So, you sign your program,
and then you ship it.
And we do not care how you ship it.
You can have a drag installer,
you can have the Apple installer,
you can use a third party installer,
you can post it on your website
and have people download it.
We absolutely do not care how you
get that code to the end user.
What we do care about is that what
ends up there is exactly what you said.
So,
this is the code that you started with.
So, this signed code on the end user
system better be byte for byte,
file for file,
the same thing that you made
when you signed your program.
But usually it isn't a big problem
if you do an initial installation.
If you go into incremental
updates in areas where you're only
shipping the files that changed,
you have to be a bit careful.
Okay, so then the user runs the program,
and that's fine.
And there is an API,
the Code Signing Validation API,
that you can point at a running program,
basically say,
"Is it okay?" And what you get out is,
"Yes, it's okay," or,
"Here's the reason why it's not okay."
And that by itself validates
that the program hasn't been
modified since it was signed.
That's useful.
I mean,
if something corrupts the program,
you'll know.
If something intentionally
corrupts the program,
you'll usually know,
unless the guy doing the corrupting
is smart enough to corrupt it and then
re-sign it with his own signature,
which, of course, he can do.
Anybody can sign a program.
I mean, there's no secret to it.
So we need a little bit more to
actually notice that somebody
changed and then re-signed a program.
So this is where these
code requirements come in,
these standardized ways of
expressing constraints on programs.
Because another input to the
validation API is a requirement object.
Now, where do you get that from?
Well,
usually you store it in some database.
For example,
the keychain API stores it in the
access control list of a keychain item.
In some other cases, it's a constant.
Like, some program may only care
that the program was signed
by a particular manufacturer,
like you.
But usually there's some kind
of database involved somewhere.
So how do you get it into the database?
Well,
there's actually a call that you can
apply to a signed program that gets
you one of those code requirements.
And we'll discuss exactly how
you do that a little bit later.
But the general idea is that as long
as you just care about continuity,
about recognizing a
program you've seen before,
this is the data flow.
You start with the code when
you see it the first time.
You get yourself a requirement.
You store it in the database.
And then later on,
if you're wondering if it's the
same program you're looking at,
you pass that to the validation API.
And it will basically say, "Yeah,
it's the same program," or "No,
it's not."
So by now we've figured out that
this is primarily a runtime feature.
So this is not really about
scouring around the hard drive and
finding things and kind of going,
"Yeah,
that looks like mail over there in that
bundle." This is primarily about--there's
this program running this process.
And yes, right now,
at this particular point in time
when you call the validation API,
this is a valid instance of Apple's mail
or a valid instance of your program.
Sort of as a side effect,
we do a lot of static validation.
We do look at the files on the
hard drive because we need it
as part of the implementation.
And we give you API for actually
looking at the disk and checking
the static validity of code on
disk because the functionality
is already there and it's handy.
But the focus of this whole
feature is a runtime focus.
It's about running code.
One thing that is part of
the architecture and we're
not doing a lot of yet,
but we will do a lot more in the future,
is dealing with hierarchies of code.
I mean, in the simplest case,
you've got a process running and
you know the kernel manages it,
but, you know, we know that.
And so that's all we care about,
a process.
But then sometimes your code is a script,
and the script is being
interpreted by another program.
Or managed or supervised.
Think of an applet running in Safari.
The applet really is code
conceptually and Safari is a program.
So the two have a relationship and
one of the features of code signing
is called code hosting where you
essentially can express to the system
a relationship between a code host,
a piece of code that's managing another
piece of code which we call the guest.
And lastly, it's kind of important
for this to be efficient.
There's a lot of code signing
machinery out there and other
operating systems that works okay,
as long as you really don't
care about performance,
because it basically sucks.
So there's a lot of emphasis in our
implementation on making this work
without there being this big momentary
impact when you run a program or when you
call a verification API where everything
comes to a screeching halt while we're
thinking about whether this is okay.
There's a lot of trickery in there,
and if you want to know,
ask questions later.
But the one point that explains
most of what we're doing is
that we're signing a code,
we're spreading stuff out.
There is no one point
where a validation happens.
There's a lot of stuff that happens
incrementally as the program runs,
and the real magic--and, well,
we did patent it--is how you can
string these little incremental
verification operations together without
having a hole in the middle that the
attacker can drive some truck through.
Okay,
that's just a little bit of graphic.
This is the classic case.
You have a program like Mail.app.
The kernel runs it.
That's the code signing view.
Basically, you have the running process.
The system knows where it
came from on the hard drive.
It picks up the signature.
Verifies.
If you happen to be
running a PowerPC program,
you may know that there's
this thing called Rosetta
that actually runs your code.
So it's not the kernel
running your PowerPC program,
it's something called Translate,
which is the name of the
program that implements Rosetta.
So code signing sees it like this:
the kernel actually runs Translate,
and Translate is code signed and
has a little mark on it saying
"I'm a code host," and Translate
is managing the PowerPC code.
So you can see this chain being built.
Code signing understands this.
I mean, it's already implemented
in Leopard this way.
So this is covered territory.
And if you want to see it any deeper,
it can go deeper if you're unfortunate
enough to run Windows 2004 still,
which happens to be a CFM application.
If you don't know what that is,
don't worry about it,
but it needs a special
interpreter called LaunchCFMApp,
which just happens to be a PowerPC binary
because it's really a legacy feature,
so now we're 3D.
And the machinery still works.
Code signing can deal with this.
If you have an interpreter,
there is API that you can
call to tell the system,
"Hello, I'm managing other code,
and I'd like to be a code host," and
you'll just fit into the machinery.
No problem.
Okay, so code requirements.
It turns out from the two years that
I've talked about this now that that
is the sleeper feature of code signing.
This is the thing that a lot of
people don't even realize is there
and yet in many ways it's the most
important single part of the machinery.
A code requirement is sort
of like a little formula,
a little expression that
contains conditions that a
program needs to satisfy.
Things like this is its name
or this is who signed it or,
you know, there's this key in the
info.p list of the program.
And you can match against
all kinds of things.
The really important part to understand
is that a code requirement really defines
what it means to have code identity.
When you're talking about, like,
what is mail.app?
Apple's mail.app.
Codesigning answers,
it's this requirement right here.
It's signed by Apple,
and it's called com.apple.mail.
That's not just an approximation.
That's not just a good idea.
That's the rule.
That's what it means to be mail.app
as far as codesigning is concerned.
If you have your program,
your program's identity is probably going
to be defined as it's signed by you,
and it's got whatever
name you assigned it.
com.yourcompany.magicalfoodprogram.
So a code requirement is a
definition of what it means to
have a particular form of identity,
and it doesn't have to
be an individual program.
You can make a code requirement,
and it's a code requirement that says,
signed by me,
and it'll cover all the programs you will
ever sign in your life by definition.
So it's not necessarily the identity
of a particular instance of program.
It could be a group of programs.
It could be an open-ended
group of programs.
It's a very powerful feature.
Code requirements can be
stored pretty much anywhere.
There's two forms of it.
You can write them as text and you
can store them as a binary blob,
which is just a variable
length binary array of bytes.
You can stick it anywhere.
You can stick it in a file,
you can stick it in a database.
We don't care.
And there's API for converting
between text and binary.
And there's a particular class of
requirements that we call internal
requirements because they're
actually embedded in code signatures.
They're requirements that
programs have on other programs,
that code has on other code.
For example, if you happen to be signing
an interpreted script,
you can probably imagine that it wouldn't
be good for security if your script
gets run by some unfriendly interpreter.
So if you want to secure your script,
you need to say, "I need to be run by an
interpreter that I trust." Well,
guess what?
It's code identity again.
So you can embed an internal
requirement in the signature
of your script that says,
"This is the identity of the interpreter
that I'm willing to run with."
internal requirements.
And this is the most important
one requirement of them all.
We call it the designated requirement
because it's a requirement you get
from a program when you ask it,
"Who are you?
What are you?"
You point at signed code,
you get back a requirement.
The API makes one up if there is no
explicit one specified by the signer,
or if you know better when you sign,
you can explicitly craft one,
stick it in, and you'll just get it
back out from the API.
And you know, the meaning of this API,
the meaning of the designated
requirement is how -- if
I look at the program later on,
how can I tell whether it's you?
It's a designated requirement.
This is how the program
designates its identity.
Oh, and, uh, sort of almost incidentally,
designated requirements define what it
means to be a software update--an update.
Because think about the
definition of Apple's mail--signed
by Apple and called mail.
If Apple makes a new one and ships it,
it's still signed by
Apple and called mail.
It's the same program.
Code signing understands that even
though not a single byte might be
the same between these two programs,
they are meant to be the same program
because of the way they're signed.
So almost incidentally,
sort of as a side effect,
we solved the software update
problem in terms of tracking what
it means to be a continuation,
an extension of another program.
[Transcript missing]
Oh, and obviously you can combine these
conditions with AND and OR and
parentheses in the perfectly obvious way.
If you dig down to the elements
of the requirement language,
you can match for exact string values.
And we mean exact,
case sensitive and all.
You can match for prefixes
and postfixes and substrings.
There's no regular expression facility
in there right now because we tend
not to trust the security of regular
expression evaluators all that much.
And as of Snow Leopard,
you can actually compare for inequality.
If you use inequality like
greater and less than,
what you actually get is string
comparison with the numeric option.
Look it up in the
Core Foundation CFString documentation
so that if you're comparing,
for example, version strings like 7.4.3,
you actually get what you want.
You get the numbers sorted right.
Okay, if you want to play
around with requirements,
either because you're just
curious or because you're trying
to make up just the right one,
there's this little utility
Swiss Army Knife program called
CSREC that lets you convert
between the text form and the
binary form of requirements.
You basically can pass it either and
you can ask for either form as output.
You can actually ask it to
convert from text to text,
which is useful because it
internally compiles it and then
uncompiles it back to text.
So it reads you back
what it thinks you said,
which is useful if you're a
little bit wondering whether
you're saying it the right way.
So that's CSREC.
And if you're actually trying to
evaluate a requirement to see if
it applies properly to a program
on disk or to a running program,
there is the dash capital
R option to code sign.
You can ask code sign for a
verification and pass any requirement.
You like it and it will tell you whether
the program is intact and whether it
satisfies the requirement you passed.
So the whole thing is based on signing
your code with digital identities.
And, you know, I could do an hour on what
digital identities are,
but thank God I don't have to
because Ken MacLeod over there
has an entire session on digital
identities and X.509 certificates.
So if this is news for you,
you probably want to go to his session
where he will explain what those are,
how you make them in detail,
how you manage them.
And this isn't code signing specific.
Digital identities are used
for all kinds of stuff.
Any time you use SSL, you use them.
Any time you sign email, you use them.
It's the same machinery.
As a matter of fact,
it really is the same machinery.
We're using the same cryptographic
libraries for making code signatures
as we're using to sign email--CMS.
So if digital identities are
used for all kinds of things,
they're not necessarily
used for the same purpose.
So if this is news for you,
you probably want to go to his session
where he will explain what those are,
how you make them in detail,
how you manage them,
and this isn't code signing specific.
Digital identities are used
for all kinds of stuff.
digital identities are
a big mystery for you.
Can session, I think,
at five is definitely
where you want to go.
So for the rest of you who
pretty much think you know
what a digital identity is,
let me just run through this.
Anything that's marked in as in the
extended key usage as can code sign
is okay for making code signatures.
There is a little utility inside
of keychain access to make
these identities from scratch.
It's called the certificate assistant.
Doesn't call you anything,
and in 30 seconds you
can have a perfectly good
tested identity for signing.
If you are not planning to
turn into a large enterprise,
that's pretty much all you need.
If you are working for a large enterprise
or you're planning to turn into one,
you want to go a little bit further
down the road and perhaps make yourself
your own certificate authority,
which in the certificate system
takes maybe five minutes,
which is a lot better than the five
hours of OpenSSL you probably need.
But anyway, you can make your own.
Or you can go out to
various companies out there,
commercial certificate authorities,
and you can buy a code
signing certificate from them.
That's fine with us too.
As long as they're properly structured,
they'll work.
If you happen to have an
identity called Authenticode,
that's something that Microsoft invented
as a trademark a while ago,
if you have an Authenticode identity,
it'll work for code signing because
it's following the same standards.
It's a box standard
RFC internet standard.
Okay.
Um...
In the special case of the iPhone,
Apple issues identities as part of
the way we're controlling what gets
installed where and who trusts who.
So if you are developing for the iPhone,
you are going to use
Apple-issued identities.
You don't get a choice there.
No matter what kind of
identity you're using,
you end up storing them in a
keychain because that's the
way it works on Mac OS X.
If you get it from somewhere else,
you have to import it into your keychain.
If you generate it in your keychain
and you want to send it somewhere else,
you have to export it from your keychain.
Ken will explain all of these
things in beautiful detail.
If you just need a hint,
if somebody sends you something that's
supposed to contain that identity,
you're looking for
something called PKCS12.
That's the name of the standard
file that's usually used
to transfer these things.
Okay, this is another question that came
up a lot in the last two years,
so I'm dedicating a slide to it.
People talk a lot about code signatures
being trusted by a particular system,
like, you know,
"Does this system trust my signature?"
And the question usually is mistaken,
but let me tell you why.
There's a feature in Mac OS X--it's
been there for a while,
but it got revamped for
Leopard--it's called Trust Settings.
What Trust Settings does is,
for any certificate, but particularly for
Anchor root certificates,
it attaches a marker saying
whether the system trusts that
certificate for a particular purpose.
You can actually--in the simplest case,
you can just say,
"I trust this thing." You know,
"It's from Apple.
I trust it." Cool.
Or you can say, "It's from Adobe.
I'll trust it." Okay.
But you can also be more specific.
You can say, I trust it for the purposes
of SSL server authentication.
So you don't have to-- if some company,
some bank is giving you a particular
certificate and saying this is how you
can tell that we're not being spoofed,
you can put a trust setting
marker on it and say,
trust this for SSL,
but don't trust it for
email or code signing,
because that would be excessive.
So anyway,
that's a mechanism for putting markers
on certificates to say whether the system
trusts them for a particular purpose
or to say whether a user trusts them.
There are user-specific
versions of those,
too.
And that's a great feature,
and it does not apply to code signing,
usually, at all, even though that has
the word trust in it.
Because code signing, for the most part,
cares about continuity of identity
rather than origin of identity.
Now those are big words,
but this matters.
Usually, you only care whether a program
is the same as the one was before.
Like, is the mail that's trying to
get a keychain password the
same as the mail that stored it?
Or is the program that's trying to
retrieve the .mac password one that's
in the group of programs that's
allowed to access the .mac password?
This does not, by itself,
depend on who signed the program
or whether you like them.
It's about, is it the same program?
And for that,
we don't need to consult the
System Trust Settings database.
We just care whether it's still the same.
So, code signing by itself,
at its core level, does not use the
Trust Settings database at all.
It doesn't mind if a certificate
is trusted by the system.
It just doesn't care.
Now, there is an element in the
requirement language that says,
"And the certificate in the
signature has to be trusted by
the system." If you put that in,
or if somebody else puts that in,
then it matters because
the requirement says so.
But it's important to understand
that this code signing infrastructure
does not impose any such requirement.
It's a particular code requirement
that may or may not say so.
So most of the time,
designated requirements just work.
Good.
Because those of you who are signing your
program probably didn't even think about
whether you needed to do anything there.
[Transcript missing]
types of certificate
chains we know what to do.
If you're making yourself
your own signing identity,
just a self-signed certificate,
it's easy.
That certificate,
it's the only one you got.
If you make your own CA and issue
yourself signing certificates
and then you sign your code,
you'll be OK, too,
as long as you put your name unchanged
into all of the organization fields.
So here's a hint.
If you build your own CA for
code signing purposes,
put in an organization field
into all the certificates and
give them all the same name.
Doesn't matter what it is.
It's your company name, usually,
in some legally acceptable form.
But make them all be the same,
because that's how the designated
requirement generator figures this out.
It starts at the leaf and kind of goes,
those all seem to come
from the same company.
I'll just go all the way
to the root and use that.
If you change it, it assumes,
because it's trying to be conservative,
that going up the chain-- oh,
it changed here.
I guess they bought
that from someone else,
so we'll stop.
here.
And that's also the point where
you may have to explicitly write
your own designated requirement.
If you buy a signing
certificate from a company,
we have no clue what that
company's policies are.
Particularly,
we have no idea what they do when
they reissue your certificates.
These things expire and
then you get a new one,
of course you pay again.
Duh.
So, since we don't know how
they reissue certificates,
we don't know what they
change when they do that,
we can't automatically
write a requirement that
says what that policy is.
So,
in the case where you're buying yourself
a certificate from someone else,
you need to write one.
You can either do that yourself or
you could actually try to call up
your vendor and ask them what to use.
I have no idea whether they
can give you an answer,
but they should.
Thank you.
The general process is look at
the certificate chain that you're
getting when you sign with one of
those certificates issued from a
company that has their own policies,
and then try to write a code
requirement that basically nails down
the parts that you know won't change.
Like if they're always using the
same subject common name for you,
then you want to put the subject common
name of that certificate is this.
Or if there is a particular
marker extension that they
put into an intermediate,
you want to say that.
In the demo in a little bit,
I'll show you one example of that.
Another little incidental thing:
when you're signing code,
one of the arguments that you can
pass into the signing operation is
called the "signing flags," which
you can ignore for the most part.
If you are making a code host,
there's a flag that says "I'm a
code host" that you need to set.
But other than that,
if you don't pass any flags,
you'll just get the default behavior.
There are two flags that are interesting,
though, if you want to achieve
a particular effect.
There's a "force_kill" flag that
if you pass it during signing,
sets a flag in the signature
that immediately causes the
system to kill your program
if it ever loses its identity.
Oh yeah, that's harsh.
But sometimes it's exactly what you want,
because by exclusion, it means as long as
your program is running,
it's valid.
And sometimes that's kind of handy.
It means you never have to worry
about "have I been hacked?" Well,
if you have been hacked,
and the system actually
managed to detect it,
you'd be dead.
So you haven't been hacked.
Case closed.
There is a slightly milder
version of this called the "hard
flag," and you can force that on,
too.
The meaning of the hard flag is if I ever
have a choice between getting a resource,
like loading a resource
file or paging in a page,
or loading a library,
and that makes me invalid,
because we can't trust the
thing we're going to load,
or just not getting this
thing but staying valid,
I'd rather not get this thing.
So if you set the hard flag on a program,
it may be told by the system
that you can't page in this page,
you can't read this resource,
you can't load this library,
but you'll stay valid.
If the flag is off,
the default behavior is, "Here,
have your library," and
you just got invalidated.
Okay, API.
The API itself is at least
a year and a half old,
but until a month ago
it was private to Apple.
We've just managed to publish, I think,
about 60% of it.
And so I'm going to give you a quick
run-through just to give you a guide to
what to look for while you're reading
the header files and trying out things.
The API objects are
core foundation objects.
They really are core foundation objects,
the genuine article.
So when you get them,
you can use them for as long as you
want and then you CF release them.
You can stick them into CFArrays and
CFDictionary's and CF sets
if you absolutely have to.
You can treat them like core
foundation objects in all
respects because they really,
really are.
These are the three types:
a SecCodeRef is a
reference to running code.
So that's the ones you usually
are going to throw around.
A SecStaticCode is a reference
to code stored on disk.
That's usually a single tool or a bundle.
And a SecRequirement
is a code requirement.
So in order to do validation,
which is the reason for
existence for this whole thing,
where you're checking that
a program can be accessed,
that it has integrity,
and that it conforms with a requirement,
that's the call you're going to make.
It's really quite innocent looking.
Basically, you pass a code reference
and a requirement reference.
All of the APIs have a flag argument,
and usually you just pass
kseccs default flags,
which says I'll take
the default thank you.
There are API-specific flags you
can pass into change behavior,
and if we ever need to do the
backward compatible thing,
that's how we'll do it.
These are a couple of
errors that you might find.
There's this list of 50 errors
that code signing can return to
you telling you what went wrong.
And it can also return to you all
kinds of other OS status error
codes from other subsystems.
But these are the ones you're
most likely going to find.
Error status 'unsigned'
means this wasn't signed,
so I can tell you whether it's valid.
Error status 'failed' means it's broken.
It's signed, but there's something
wrong with the signature,
and so you don't want to trust it.
Error status 'failed' means
that the signature is fine,
the program has integrity,
everything's cool,
except the requirement you passed in
doesn't actually match the program.
So you probably don't want to accept it.
Okay, so that means you need a code
reference and a requirement reference.
Well, how do you get a code reference?
There is one API function that pretty
much does it for you all the time,
and since we're being
Core Foundation-like,
we give it a long name.
Basically,
you pass it a CFDictionary of attributes.
And, for example,
if you're after a process,
you would be passing in a dictionary
with one entry that says 'the pit is
this'. There's other possibilities,
of course.
You can either specify a
particular code host and say,
'I'm only looking for guests of this
host', but if you pass null for the host,
you'll just basically start at the
kernel and you'll find what you can
with the attributes that you passed in.
And that's almost always what you do.
You just pass null for the host,
you pass in everything
you know about the code,
starting with the pit,
and you let the system figure it out.
You get back a set code ref,
or if it doesn't work,
you get back an error code.
[Transcript missing]
And finally,
we have the Omnibus Information Call.
You pass a bunch of flags,
we'll give you a CFDictionary with
more than you ever wanted to
know about a code signature.
Some of the things in the
information dictionary you're
getting back are actually live
API objects from other subsystems.
Like, one of them is a SecTrustDraft.
If you know what that is
or you want to look it up,
this is the actual validation object
that is used internally to validate the
cryptographic part of the signature.
So if you are maximum amount of
extra information out of the system,
you can then in turn apply
information calls to that
and get even more stuff out.
Okay,
let's take a break and do some demo.
I'm still demoing with
a command line tool.
I hope you don't mind.
It's just a lot easier.
So here's a little program that basically
doesn't do anything except it can
create a keychain item and retrieve it.
So we have something that we can
actually apply code signing to.
So for those of you who aren't
actually signing your programs yet,
let's just explore what
happens if you don't sign it.
So here is the tool and let's
say we want a test Keychain item
which creates a Keychain item
called test in the Keychain and
If we retrieve it again,
it comes back out because
when you make a Keychain item,
the application that created
it is allowed to access it.
Everything's fine, right?
And then you update your program.
And now it's version 1.1.
And you go and you run the program
again and you get this dialog which
you're all painfully familiar with.
And the dialogue really,
if you read between the lines, says,
"Okay, there's a different thing here,
but it kind of looks like it
wants to be the previous one,
so tell me, is this the same program?
Do you want me to treat
this like the same program,
or what do you want to do?"
And it's annoying because,
of course, almost always you want to say,
"Yes, of course it's the same program.
I just built it." And, of course,
then perhaps once in a blue moon,
it's not because some hacker
sent you a hacked version.
And how is the user supposed to know?
It's not a good situation.
So what do you do?
You can hand sign it,
but with the awesome power of Xcode,
you can do better than that.
You can actually tell Xcode to sign.
Ah, but what do you sign with?
Right.
Let's make an identity.
So here's Keychain Access,
which you'll find in
the application utility.
So you'll find the key
to the key directory,
and there is a certificate assistant.
And you can ask the certificate
assistant to make you a certificate.
The only trick you need here is
you need to check the "Let me
override the defaults" checkbox.
And, yes,
this just warns you that you probably
should know what you're doing.
And you can ask for a
certificate type code signing.
And then you can just keep on going.
It knows what the other defaults are.
And before... you know it.
You have a signing
identity in your Keychain.
Here's test the Keychain ID we just made.
And a signing identity looks like
a private key and a certificate.
Keychain Assistant makes you the
public key just in case you care.
So now we have a signing
identity called Demo.
So let's go to Keychain Access, Xcode,
and
If you have the latest version of Xcode,
you'll notice there's this new
section here called Code Signing.
All you really have to do is...
put in the name of the signing identity.
Demo.
And then build your program.
Let's--better safe than
sorry--clean it first.
OK, what happened here?
Internally,
Xcode is running the code sign command.
And the code sign command has
no particular access to the
identity that you're signing with.
So the system gives you this dialogue.
And this dialogue is not superfluous.
This is a really good dialogue.
It says,
do you really want the code sign command
to have access to the signing identity?
And you can either say, yeah, allow,
which means you'll get
asked the next time.
Or you can say, always allow,
which is easier in the long run
if you're just testing around.
OK, so now we've signed the program,
which you can verify by asking for
a verification of the Frop tool.
Code sign is a typical Unix command.
So by default, if everything's fine,
it doesn't say anything.
But if you add more verbose flags,
it will actually tell you
that everything's fine.
So let's run it again.
So here.
You get this dialogue because what
you've done now is you're trying
to access a Keychain item that
was made by an unsigned program,
your old FROP tool.
Now there's a signed version and
since we don't yet know whether those
two are supposed to be the same,
we have to ask one more time.
So we're saying yes and
now everything's fine.
And this time,
if we are changing the program,
we're going to version 2.0.
No dialogue,
because now we use code signing.
And now we understand--the system
understands without having to
guess or without having to make
any dangerous assumptions that
it's really the same program.
Because you said so.
You said it's PropTool and
it's signed by the same guy.
Let's see.
We are, as always,
a little bit behind on our schedule.
So let me just show you a couple
of potentially useful things if
you're working with keychains.
If you are--
Looking at the access control
list of a Keychain item,
you'll see there are two
entries for the tool now.
One is the old one that applied
to the unsigned program and
the other one is the new one.
How can you tell the difference?
Actually, usually you can't,
but there is an undocumented little
preference which you can set.
It's called Distinguished Legacy ACLs.
Yeah, put the spaces and all
in there like that.
If you set that to true,
then Legacy ACLs,
the ones for unsigned programs,
turn italic.
So you can tell the difference.
I don't think that's documented anywhere,
so bonus.
Actually, I'll give you a better bonus.
If you select a Keychain ACL entry
that's for a signed program and
you hold down the Option key
and you hit the plus button,
it will actually show you the code's
requirement that's hidden in there.
So this is what really happens.
When the system is trying to figure
out whether FropTool is supposed to
get access to this Keychain item.
This is the requirement.
It says this is the identifier
and the leaf anchor,
which since it's a
self-signed certificate,
it's the same as the root anchor,
has this hash.
We don't store the whole certificate.
Certificates are pretty big,
like a kilobyte.
Instead, we store the hash of it.
And if you actually want to,
you can edit this and hit
OK inside of Keychain Access.
and basically change it to
whatever you want it to be.
And, oh yeah,
we were talking about how to
make designated requirements.
Let me show you how some
parts of Apple do that.
Okay, this is a phone application that
I just got from one of my colleagues.
And if we take a look at
the signature of this,
This is the designated requirement
that's generated by the system
for this phone application.
It looks a heck of a lot more complicated
than anything you've seen so far because
the situation is more complicated.
Remember, this is a signing identity that
Apple issued to a developer.
So what we're seeing
here is the identifier,
which is just like the
identifier in the Frop tool.
And it needs to be signed by Apple here,
except we don't actually care
whether it's signed by Apple for
itself or for developers,
so that's why the generic clause is here.
And then we're seeing things about
the certificates in the chain.
We're seeing that the leaf must
have a subject of this string,
which just happens to be the
signing identity for the guy who
signed this phone application.
And we're seeing that an
intermediate--the first intermediate
in the signing chain--has to have
this particular certificate extension.
Now,
we generate this automatically because
Apple knows how Apple does this.
We understand the rules that we
made for ourselves for issuing
certificates to developers.
Something like that will need
to be written if you buy your
certificates from VeriSign,
except the actual contents
need to reflect that.
So, we need to protect VeriSign's
policies rather than Apple's policies.
And that's the point where
we can't guess for you.
Okay.
I promised you some information about
gotchas and things to watch out for.
So let's talk about what could go wrong.
First of all,
what happens if you don't sign
your code and you keep shipping it?
Not that you would, but, you know,
what would happen if you did?
The system believes that unsigned
code has no reliable identity.
Or perhaps you could say
no verifiable identity.
I mean it can claim to be a particular
program but there is not very much we
can do to actually verify such a claim.
So the system proceeds on
the assumption that yeah,
it could be that program
but then it could not.
And when we have to present
the user with a dialogue,
that's what we'll tell them.
So if you run an unsigned program and
there's a Keychain dialogue coming up,
you'll find a little fine print in the
dialogue basically says that the identity
of this application cannot be verified,
which is exactly true.
Well, we don't know.
Could be.
Could be not.
But in the end,
the user just has to decide whether
to trust this thing based on
something that he knows that we don't.
There are situations where
an unsigned program will be
automatically signed by the system.
Because you are about to
interact with a subsystem that
can deal with unsigned code.
Parental Controls is one example,
the Application Firewall is another.
Now this may sound like
a good thing at first,
but it turns out not to be
for a number of reasons.
I'll talk specifically about ad
hoc signatures in a little bit.
But generally,
this automatic signing trick is trying
to tide the user over until you can
ship a signed version of your program.
It's not a replacement for you
signing your program because,
well,
we don't have your signing identity.
We can't make any statements for you.
We can only say, "Okay,
we've nailed this program down in
this spot and we can track that it
hasn't changed until it changes."
And I will just have to assume it got
hacked because we've already signed it.
But generally,
this automatic signing trick is trying
to tide the user over until you can
ship a signed version of your program.
It's not a replacement for you
signing your program because,
well,
we don't have your signing identity.
We can't make any statements for you.
We can only say, "Okay,
we've nailed this program down
in this spot and we can track
that it hasn't changed until it
changes." And I will just have
to assume it got hacked because,
well,
we don't have your signing identity.
And I will just have to
assume it got hacked because,
well,
we don't have your signing identity.
But the other thing is it got hacked
because we don't know any better.
If this had been your code signature and
the hack actually was a software update,
then we could say, "Yeah, okay,
satisfies the designated requirement.
Everything's cool here.
We don't need to bother the
user." But we can't do that if
you don't sign your code because
we don't know what your rules are.
We don't know what you did to your code.
All we know is it changed.
So one of the sort of implicit side
effects of ad hoc signing is we always
take the pessimistic assumption that
any time the program changes at all,
it's probably a hack because, you know,
you need to be conservative here.
If an unsigned program uses the Keychain,
you essentially get shunted into
a legacy path that tries to behave
as much as possible as Tiger did.
I don't know if you still remember Tiger,
but there were a lot
of dialogues in there.
And you'll get every last one of
them because they're still in there,
complete with little notes in them
saying that the identity of the
application cannot be verified.
And that means, in particular,
that if you are issuing software updates,
you get those lovely "is this
still the same program?" dialogues.
And, you know, it's just not a really
great user experience.
And I don't know about you,
but I've gotten sort of addicted
to not getting those dialogues.
And some of the new subsystems
will just basically give you the
raspberry and not give you service,
like the Developer Tools Access.
If you want to call task for PID,
you pretty much have to
sign your code because,
well, that's just the way it is.
And as I said,
if you don't sign your code,
we don't know what a software
update for your code looks like.
So we'll just assume that it isn't.
There's one class of
programs that absolutely,
positively need to get signed,
because otherwise they won't work,
and that is programs, paradoxically,
that self-check with their
own self-check trickery.
Because they want to defend
themselves against evil hackers.
If they're unsigned and they self-check
and they touch something like the
application firewall because they
make an inbound connection or because
they're running under parental controls,
they will get ad hoc signed and the ad
hoc signature will change the program.
And then the self-check will fail.
That's not good.
So paradoxically,
if you are writing the kinds of
programs that perform self-checks,
you absolutely positively
need to sign them right now
or your users will be--well,
your users already are very unhappy.
Now, there's a flip side to this.
So you go and you sign your program.
You are very conscientious about it.
You do everything right.
But then something happens
and the code signature breaks.
A program that is signed but has
an invalid signature is considered
to have no identity at all.
Because clearly whatever claim to
identity it has made with the code
signature cannot be believed because,
you know, it's broken.
So obviously that means that any
time that program makes a request on
the basis of "I get this because I'm
me" like requesting a keychain item,
requesting developer tools access,
requesting to be allowed to run
because of parental controls and so on,
it just won't--it will be denied.
As a matter of fact,
the system is currently shipped in a
state both in Leopard and Snow Leopard
where you don't even get a dialogue.
You just--the retrieval call for the
keychain item gets denied automatically.
Unless, obviously,
a program like that can't make
a new keychain item either.
Why is that?
Because when you're
making a keychain item,
you are making an access control
list for the new item that says,
and the creator has free
access to this item.
But the creator is a code signing
requirement for the creating program.
And if you don't have an identity,
we can't make a code signing
requirement for your identity
because you don't have one.
So a program with a broken signature
cannot make keychain items.
And there's a number of other
things that it can't do either.
If the breakage is...
Oh, okay.
You can usually run on Leopard,
personal Leopard,
because we don't currently
on Mac OS X simply deny
launch for broken programs,
for programs with broken signatures.
Except in the case of parental controls,
obviously.
There is no mechanism in the system that
will repair a broken signature because
we have no idea how we would do this.
Because for one,
we don't have your code signing identity,
which is a good thing,
which means that we couldn't fake a
repair for you even if we wanted to,
which we don't.
So once a program is broken on disk,
it'll stay broken because presumably
something painted over it,
intentionally or not, and, you know,
restore a backup or
reinstall the program.
That's basically the options.
Now there's a second type of breakage
which is dynamic invalidation,
where a program does something at runtime
that makes it lose its validity bit,
its, you know,
its state in the system that says,
"I am still valid." If that's the
only thing that happened to a program,
you can actually quit it and
relaunch it and not do that thing
again that lost its identity
because the thing on disk is fine.
So here's another example
where static and dynamic has
slightly different consequences.
So that's your options.
Reinstall,
which can mean restore the backup,
obviously.
That's Time Machine, you know, try it.
And if it's a dynamic breakage,
then relaunch.
When you are issuing software updates
that do more complicated things than
just replacing the whole application,
you have to be careful that
you are really shipping all of
the files that have changed.
That includes the files that
code signing made in your bundle.
If
Generally,
any update mechanism that faithfully
replicates your desired state onto
the end user system will work fine.
Because code signing absolutely
doesn't even understand what
your transport mechanism is.
It just cares about the end result.
And the end result has to be exactly
the same files that were signed on your
system when you signed your program.
So if you're having
complicated update scenarios,
be careful and just test.
It's really quite simple.
So ad hoc signatures--
This particular type of signature
which is--remember the picture
with the seal and then the
signature applied to the seal?
An ad hoc signature is a seal
without an actual digital signature.
We don't use identities at all.
We just stop after the making the seal
part and we just take the seal as given.
The minimum amount of code signing
you can possibly get away with to
notice that a program has changed.
So the parental controls on
the firewall currently do that.
And there are two obvious
gotchas with this.
The really obvious one is that since we
are nailing down exactly this program,
software updates can't be tracked.
If the program changes in any way at all,
we'll just say it's a different program.
The thing that is not perhaps
obvious is that because of
the way these things are made,
they're architecture specific.
So if your users end up getting
your program ad hoc signed because
of something they're doing,
like, you know,
network connections or parental controls,
and then they switch
from PowerPC to Intel,
or from Intel to Intel 64-bit--heard
about it-- then these ad hoc
signatures will no longer verify.
And that will probably
lead to complaints.
from your users.
I did mention you should sign your code,
right?
Because obviously, if you sign your code,
you will never get ad hoc
signed and all of this problem
will just not happen to you.
Okay, frequently asked questions before
we take your real questions.
No, we do not decide what code is
good and what code isn't good.
We very, very intentionally do not have
anything in our code signing code
that makes any judgments as to
whether your code is acceptable or
good or nice or otherwise qualified.
That's what the code
requirements are for.
All of the policy is in
the code requirements.
Everything.
There's no policy in the core
code signing code other than,
you know, the seal can't be broken.
Nor does the system as a whole--the
system that you're running on,
generally--make this judgment.
Remember I told you about trust settings?
No, the trust settings configuration of
the system or any other configuration
database in the system does not a priori
decide whether a program is good or not.
Again, it's in the code requirements,
and that means it's individual.
I get the question a lot,
"So does the system trust my program?"
I don't know which part of the system.
Each of the different parts
has a different idea of how
to make up code requirements.
It's perfectly possible for your
program to be trusted by parental
controls and the firewall,
but not the keychain.
So, the system is probably
the wrong question.
Mac OS X will in general still run
your program if it's not signed.
And as a matter of fact,
because some parts of it
don't like unsigned code,
it will sign your program for you,
and we've just discussed
that that's not a good thing.
Well, if you don't know my
answer to that one yet,
I'm not going to repeat it.
And, yeah,
we don't get that one much anymore.
Yes,
you can buy yourself a digital identity
from a professional commercial provider.
That's fine with us.
We support it.
But we don't require it.
You can do anything that you can
do with a professionally sold
identity with an identity you
make yourself with Apple tools.
And in the end, it's up to you.
- Yeah.
Um, that question will
recede into the distance.
Signed code actually runs fine on Tiger,
in case you still wonder about that,
because Tiger just ignores
the code signature.
With one exception,
you don't want to ship frameworks
into Tiger because the linker
actually complains that it doesn't
understand what those strange bits are.
Top problems, again,
these are things that people have
run into often enough that I'll
just tell you upfront about it.
If you have helper tools,
don't put them in resources.
Put them somewhere else.
We don't really care
where somewhere else.
Typical places are the Mac OS directory
or perhaps the contents directory.
Just don't put them in resources.
I realize Xcode makes it excruciatingly
easy to put things into resources,
but helpers don't go there.
If you change anything on your
program after you sign it as
part of your mastering process,
you know,
putting them on DVDs or uploading
on your website or whatever,
be really careful that you don't change
the program because a modification
is a modification and the signing
system can't tell whether it's okay.
If you meant to make a change,
that's okay.
Just make the change and
then sign the program.
If your installer
allows partial installs,
you know, like optional modules and
optional parts of the program,
then it's not a good idea to have these
optional parts be resources in your
resources folder because when you sign,
you have to sign the whole thing.
There is a facility for saying these
resources over there are optional.
This is called a resource specification.
But it's usually a much better idea to
just make those optional parts optional.
and then we can do a
little bit of coding.
So we can
Obviously,
it's a bad idea to change the code on
the end user system for any reason.
What I usually recommend is that just
imagine that your program gets installed
on a read-only file system or on a DVD.
And if something in your program's
operation breaks because you
can't write to your bundle,
you probably need to redesign it.
Localizations.
You need to make sure that what
you're signing is the whole thing,
including all localizations.
So if you have optional localizations,
pile them all in before you
make the code signature.
Localizations are automatically optional,
so they can be stripped out later.
If your localizations
are optional installs,
that's fine.
We know about that.
It'll work fine.
But you cannot sign your program,
ship it, and then have some third
party make the changes.
So make more localizations and just stuff
them in because those are new files and
the system will complain about them.
And if you still make
self-modifying code,
well, never mind.
Okay, and more information.
Greg Keithley,
who I can't actually see right now,
is the omnibus technology evangelist,
including data security.
So if you need evangelism services,
he's your one-stop shop.
There are perfectly good man pages for
CodeSign and CSREC that are actually
right now your best documentation
for how they work and what they do.
There is a conceptual code
signing documentation part
in the developer library,
and there is a tech note that's
been held up since December that
still hasn't been published.
So it's not on this list yet.
As I said,
Ken is giving a presentation entirely
dedicated to X.509 certificates and
digital identities today at 5:00.
So if you need any help with that,
please go.
He loves to answer questions.
There is a data security lab right after
this session down on the first floor.
Since, as expected,
we won't have much time for Q&A,
I invite all of you to
come down with me there.
I'll be there and you can
spend the entire lab asking
me questions if you want to.
And if you have phone-specific questions,
you're unfortunately too late because
there was a phone-specific security
session that you've already missed.
They asked me to put a summary in.
So code signing is about
defining code identity,
about what it means for code to
have identity and about tracking
this identity at runtime.
You, as the company,
the person who signs the code,
define what that identity means.
So you actually get to define
what it means for your program
to have software updates.
And conversely,
the user on the end user system makes
the policy decisions because he directly
or indirectly specifies what code
requirements get applied to the code.
So neither of these two roles is Apple's.
Neither the defining role nor
the policy-making verifying role.
Unless, of course,
one of us happens to be Apple.
If Apple makes the code,
obviously we're the manufacturer.
Sign your code.
If you haven't done it yet,
you really want to get going on this.
Right now, we're transitioning.
Transition is good.
It gives you some breathing room.
Eventually, the transition will be over
and then it'll be an emergency
and it'll be your emergency.
Please, don't let it be an emergency.